Okay I just have to say at the top that I'm Marcia Marnie and with Adrian Williams at
the Fishery Goldcliff and it's Monday the 1st July 2019.
I'm just going to put that there and I wonder Adrian if you can just start off, can you
just maybe introduce yourself?
I'm Adrian Williams, I was the last butcher fisherman of the Welsh butcher fisheries.
There are some left still but they're in England not in Wales.
So what brought your family here?
Just give us the background to that.
My father, my grandfather ran the Beechley Oust ferry.
When the Severn Bridge was announced they looked for alternative venues for bridges
or crossings of some kind up and down the Severn Estuary.
When the Goldcliff fisheries became available it was one of the parcels of ground along
with the business that they purchased in the early 1960s after they discovered that the
Severn Bridge was to make the ferry defunct.
So what was it, their names?
What were their Christian names?
My grandfather was Enoch Williams, my father was John Williams.
Enoch, wow, where were they from?
My father was born in Newport when my grandfather was an architect for the Newport Borough Council
and my grandfather was originally from Bonny Mine in Swansea.
So what, I'm going back a bit, but what took them to, you know, what led them to running
the Oust ferry?
My grandfather was an entrepreneurial person who saw that there was a possibility of creating
a passenger ferry between Beechley and Oust and he had the dream of doing it and had eventually
got to the point where he was able to finance it with some outside help after he'd worked
for a few years as an architect.
He started the Beechley Oust ferries in the late 1920s and then they started carrying
cars as cars became more prolific and it went from there to when they were closed down
to having three ferries which used to carry 15 or 16 cars per ferry and obviously history
shows that if they were still doing it today they'd need more than three ferries, that's
for sure.
So the ferries, I mean, you were telling me a story last week about the last ferry, what
happened to the, is there one still remaining or is there one still at Chapstow?
There's one still at Chapstow on the river side, it's been pulled up out of the river
and it's just up on top of the bank underneath the railway bridge in Chapstow which they're
looking for a permanent site for, the Seven Princesses and there's a restoration project
going onwards to try and put it back to a part where they can actually use it like a
bandstand type thing or a display of some kind in the new development of the Mabee site,
the Fairfield Mabee site in Chapstow.
So when they purchased the fishery, when they purchased the fishery, I want to hold that
up a little bit, did they have any knowledge of fishing?
No.
My grandfather was a keen angler, he was a trout fisherman, he would catch trout, he
used to have fishing rights on certain rivers in Wales, because my grandfather was a very
keen fly fisherman, but he had no salmon fishing experience or anything to do with commercial
fishing.
So what was their knowledge of this place, this fishery before they came, do you know?
Not really, no, they just knew it was on the side of the river and if it was on the side
or near the river then they bought it, that was the rule of thumb really.
So I just wonder if that's going to get in the way of the river.
Right, OK.
What's he doing?
He's mowing.
He's mowing in the field, is he?
Er, the side bit.
Actually, can I come and sit there?
Yeah, sure.
That might be better.
No, you won't be there long.
Erm, yeah that's better, that is much better.
So, do you have any knowledge of the previous owners?
Only that they also ran the fishmongers in Newport.
They were Burgess who had the fishmongers where Marks and Spencer's in Newport town
centre used to be and they demolished the existing buildings and built the new Marks
and Spencer's, which would have been in the 50s I guess, I'm not sure.
And prior to that the owners were people called fennel and fennels were actually tenants
to Eden College.
Eden College were the actual owners for the majority of the period of time of the fisheries
and they were given the fisheries by Henry VIII at the time of the dissolution of the
monasteries.
So, when your grandfather and father brought the fishery here, do you remember that?
Well, I was four years old.
So, what's your earliest memory of it?
That's a good question.
It's a bit of a blur really because I've done it so many times before but I used to
come down with my mother mostly because she was the one that used to come to collect the
fish and take the fish to the station or to wherever we had to take it.
We'd come through before the motorway was built, obviously before the M4 was built.
So, it would have been 1965, 1966 when we'd have to come through all the lanes from Chapstow
to Goldcliff.
I remember having to travel that road which wasn't the best and then we'd go down to get
the fish in the old Land Rover which was very unique.
We were probably one of the only commercial fisheries that used to go to work in a Land
Rover.
Go fishing in a Land Rover was the term I suppose.
Did you bring it down there?
Yeah, we used to drive it down round the corner.
How did you get it from here?
Down round there and it's all hard, it's all rocks which every spring we'd make it so you
could compact it down and then when you get just down in front of the fence on what we
call the mile, mile being a local terminology for a very hard clay and it's almost like
rock but it's not hard rock but you can drive vehicles on it no problem and that's what
we used to drive the Land Rover round and go down and then look in all the baskets and
what you and your men?
Mr Howells the fisherman and also we had another chap who was called John Newton, local farmer.
He used to help out as well.
When Mr Howells, Wyndham Howells was getting older he wasn't able to drive the vehicle
so John Newton used to drive the vehicle.
So you come down here, there's a slipway here, drive round to the ranks and then would you
have to climb up the ranks?
Yeah, depending on where the fish was.
If it was up on the top tier there was rails and posts and you'd step on the rails and
post like a ladder and then we used to use a tool like a stick with a prong on the end
of it and the prong used to be put into the fish's mouth and then you'd force the fish
backwards with the stick so you could just about reach the tail of the fish from the
other side of the basket so you'd have to remember where the fish was because sometimes
they'd slip down again and then you'd have to go back round again and push it again and
sometimes it'd slip back again and you'd have to go round again so sometimes it was a bit
of a nuisance.
Take a few times.
Yeah and other times you'd push it too far and it would flop out on the ground which
we didn't want to do that because it would get all muddy and also it might bruise the
fish a bit so we used to use a stick with a special V in it.
Like something you'd use on the barbecue?
Yeah, it was about six foot long.
Oh wow.
Yeah, so you could push the fish quite a considerable way back because the baskets themselves were
about five foot long.
So you were going to the narrow end?
Yes.
And then pushing it back that way?
Yeah.
Okay, I see.
Well you'd have to find the fish to start with because the baskets, because they were
silver they were made of aluminium in the last few years of the fishery.
We had aluminium rather than withy or wicker baskets.
So the fish weren't that easy to see especially if there was a lot of, you used to get a lot
of kelp, a lot of seaweed.
And if there was a lot of kelp about then it would be very, very difficult to see the
fish.
So sometimes if you had fish about then you would have to go and push through the kelp
to check there wasn't a fish in the basket because it was so full of seaweed.
So you had to check each every basket.
More often than not there wasn't that much kelp about.
So a lot of baskets to check though?
Well, 2,300 when I first took it over, yeah.
Wow.
So how many ranks was that?
Well it was three ranks in total.
As time went by the stocks got less and less and the price of the license went up per basket.
I identified what I thought was the best part of the fishing and I only did that part of
the fishing.
I didn't do the bits where we didn't use to catch many fish.
Where did you catch most of the fish?
Well the best one was what we call the flood rank which is the one round the corner.
This one here?
The flood rank was, because it was always covered the flood rank whereas the air rank,
the top row as we called it, on a neap tide which is a small tide, it would barely be
covered, hardly any of it would be covered.
So you'd have no chance unless you were flying fish.
Flying fish?
Flying fish, I'm only joking.
You've got no chance of catching anything.
So you had, what's the one over here called again?
The flood.
The ebb.
And there was one called the shrimp which was out and there's like a spit which will
show up, well it's actually the tide's coming in there.
We used to have the shrimp which was only a small rank and it wasn't worth really putting
putches in it because we caught very few salmon in it.
But years ago they used to use it for kite fishing.
Which is a much larger and much more interwoven basket.
And the front mouth of the basket was between four to five feet wide and it would go down
to a plug on the end of it and it would be tightly woven so it would catch everything,
not just salmon, it would catch small whiting, it would catch flatfish and it would catch
shrimps.
Yeah, was it supposed to catch everything?
It was meant to catch everything, yeah.
And there would be a funnel on the end of it with a plug in it and then they would take
the funnel off, take the plug out and then tip it into a bucket and then bring it back
up here and then I never did it myself but there was a boiler where they used to...
What in here?
It was in the fish house just behind where we are now, the original fish house.
And so they boil the shrimps and they'd be taken off to the shop in Newport but we never
did it, we were never really interested in it.
So the boiler was still here when you came?
The boiler was still here, yeah.
But it was something that we never did because it was too labour intensive and we didn't
have an outlet for the shrimps etc.
So rather than using Kite Sweet we'd converted it to butcher fishery but it was very poor,
very very poor for salmon.
You still called it the shrimp though?
Yeah, we still call it the shrimp.
It was the first to stop because it was labour intensive.
If you can imagine having to go and look at it at half past two in the morning, dead at
night in the black darkness, it wasn't exactly the best thing to have to do and when you
had no fish in it.
Did you have to do that?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
When we first started and I soon got fed up with that and so I stopped doing that and
as the price of the putches increased then we decided not to do the ebb and just ended
up with the flood.
How long did you do that before thinking, well this isn't worth it now?
Well, personally I took over the fishery in 1981 and I carried on doing the flood and
the ebb until about 1992.
So I suppose, yeah, about 11 years I did the two together and then I gave up the ebb,
which had 700, 800 baskets.
That's still a lot isn't it?
Well it sounds a lot but it wasn't an awful lot because you only put them out once at
the beginning of the season, take them in at the end of the season and that's it.
But checking them every day?
Every day, twice a day.
Twice a day?
Twice a day but then it's only for, well it was for four months of the year, the original
licence and then towards the end they were trying to reduce it down to just two months
of the year.
They'd actually cut it to three months of the year.
So it's the environmental agency?
Yeah, the environmental agency.
We're trying to get rid of all commercial fisheries.
Because of their fear about dwindling fish?
Yes, because of the problems with the native species not having an awful lot of fish.
Fish returning and also there was other complications with it as well.
Interbreeding was a worry as well where I used to catch fish which I didn't really understand
what they were until I realised that they were farmed fish.
Oh really?
Because they didn't look like the proper Atlantic salmon.
Got out into the system.
And they'd been released somehow, either accidentally or on purpose I would have thought accidentally.
And I was catching these funny looking fish which were farmed salmon and the theory was
that they were going to interbreed with the wild fish and if they did that then that would
make the, not a true wild salmon, it would be like a hybrid.
And there was all kinds of other things going on.
So when your grandfather, father took over, was it withy baskets then?
No, it was aluminium.
They'd had aluminium for a few years.
I think we had some wicker baskets, withy baskets.
Because I found a bill for aluminium wire to repair the baskets with.
Oh really?
And my father had requested that a rep had called to talk about new baskets.
But I've got a lot of bills and things there, we've got a rich date from 65.
Oh gosh, so there's somebody selling the fish as well?
Yeah, and I believe they're still manufacturing aluminium products now.
I'm not sure whether they're still in the full evening I think it was.
I've got the receipt for the specimen.
I don't think we ever had, we might have done, I'm not 100% sure,
whether we had any made ourselves or whether we just inherited them all.
So when your grandfather and grandfather came you had the three rangs here.
And presumably they had looked at the books before and thought this is a bit of an earner?
Well again, funnily enough I found workings out that my father did, it must have been about 1964.
And I've got the workings out that he jotted down on the back of a piece of paper,
a bit of Beechley Oars Ferries paper, of what he thought the proposal, the hammership would actually make.
So something I've never seen actually, I only found it while I was looking through the...
That's not got chucked out.
No, it's all been kept, yeah.
So did they inherit Wyndham?
Yes, yes, yes, he was part of the furniture.
He was 86 when he died and that was about 1983 or 84, no it was probably later, that might have been 86.
I can't remember, I have to look in the graveyard.
So whether he was turn of the century then, I'm not sure.
But he was here all his life virtually, he went away to war.
Oh did he?
He went to the... I don't know if he was in the First World War or not, but he got posted to certain places.
And he did do, I believe he was on the anti-aircraft guns in the war here.
Oh yeah?
But I can find all that out because I'm friends with his grandson, friendly enough.
Oh are you?
Well I employed after Wyndham died, he used to repair the aluminium baskets, I employed his son, John Howells.
Oh, for healing?
So I employed John for, well, until the fishery closed.
Oh gosh, yeah I'd love to get back around to Wyndham.
And then his grandson is a friend of mine.
Do they live around locally?
They live in Newport.
Oh really?
So what was your memories of Nick Wyndham?
Did he actually play a role or were your grandparents father and father in kind?
Well he was most, yes it was more, he was part of the furniture.
He repaired the baskets which was an important job, but he wasn't, well I suppose he would have been in his mid-60s when we first took it over.
So he would have been reasonably fit and capable in those days.
But as time went by we had to employ somebody else because he wasn't up to being by himself here.
And he was always helped out by his nephew as well.
If John Newton wasn't available there was another man called Andrew Greenholge.
I see Walter's mentioned him this morning.
Yeah, well he was a local farmer who was into everything and he was a very cantankerous sort of person.
He was a cantankerous, yes, that's the best way of describing him.
He called the spade a spade and he was a funny old fellow but he was very useful.
He was always the person that I used to employ with his tractor and trailer when we set the fishing out at the beginning of the season and then we took it up again at the end of the season.
He was the man that used to come and sort it all out.
You load all the putters in the back and bring the guy on to the foreshore and then they'd have to be fixed into position.
So who would be doing that?
I used to employ people, whoever was available really.
Towards the end of it I couldn't get the locals to do it.
I used to have to get people coming from Chepstone.
I used to go to parts of Chepstone where I knew there was a few unemployed people and say, right, I need a couple of men just for a day or two days' work.
And they'd all come then and put a bit of cash in their hands.
So how long it took? A couple of days?
It depended, yeah, mostly it would only, depending if it was just the flood, towards the end of it it would only take a day. It would take one tide.
But when we used to do this, the flood and the ebb together, it was probably three days because there was a lot of work and this one was messy as anything.
Was it? Why?
Because it's very muddy out there.
And it's on peat rather than on marl.
Yeah.
So you can see, you can actually see tracks out in the peat there now.
Where that's where the tractor used to tow.
And so every year we used to get stuck, Pansy gets stuck, sorry, Andrew Greenhouse gets stuck.
And there'd be lots of cursing and swearing, Andrew's got stuck again, blah, blah, blah.
And then we'd have to go and get either another tractor or get a winch.
Oh my God, really?
Yeah, that was a real problem.
Did you ever have to re-erect the structure itself, the timbers?
We used to have to, every year we had to maintain the framework, yes.
Every year we would have to replace.
Again, that was one of the reasons why I stopped doing this one because in 92 we had a huge gale while the baskets were in place.
And it damaged a lot of the framework and it lost a lot of the baskets.
I never saw the baskets again, they were gone.
So that was one of the other reasons why I decided not to do the ebb.
Should we go in?
Yeah.
It's a bit cold out here.
Sorry.
So I've got this image, a photograph of Wyndham with his bike and his beret.
Yeah, that's a good picture, if you've got it.
I don't know whether I got one of those.
Yeah, before they used to use the Land Rover, they used to do it with a push bike.
Did they? What do you mean they did it with a push bike?
Well, they had a butcher's bike with a pannier on it.
Yes.
I don't think I've got that picture actually.
So you'd have a pannier on the front and a pannier on the back.
Yeah.
And he'd have to put the fish on the bike and then ride it down to the flood.
And then wheel it back with the fish on the bike.
Really?
Yeah. And if there was a lot of fish, he'd have to make several trips.
Wow, yes he would.
Yeah.
So this place here, Adrian, this is the fishery. What did it look like when it was a fishery?
Oh, the old fish house.
Yeah, this is the fish house?
This is the old fish house. That's a good question. That's what it looked like.
Oh wow, this is here.
Yeah.
So what am I looking at then?
Well, that's where we were sat, just there when we sat outside.
Oh my goodness.
It was just demolished.
Really?
The only thing I kept was the weather vane which was on the other place, the other side.
Wow. And that's one of the salmon?
That's fresh, yeah.
Goodness. Quite a big salmon.
Yeah, there's a couple there.
Wow, crikey.
And there's the stick. There we are, you can see the stick there.
Now what was this for? Oh, the little thing on that side. It's a little gaff really, isn't it?
Yeah, it wasn't. As I say, it was like a fork, just a two-pronged fork on the end of it.
That's such a great photograph. Isn't it? Wow, I used to really want a car like that.
That's a Renault 4.
Yeah.
Well, as time went by, Land Rovers became expensive.
So I discovered that Renault 4s were much cheaper and did the job just as well, if not better.
Would you bring that down onto the foreshore?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I used to drive it down.
What, with the trailer?
No, no, no, no, just in the back. I used to fold the seats down in the back, put the trays in the back of the vehicle and away you go.
What, to collect the salmon?
Yeah, yeah.
Oh my God. Really?
So then you would bring them back up here, would you?
Yeah, and then they'd go into the fish house in there. In there there'd be a big fridge and a freezer making ice and what we call a bosh, which is like a big sink.
And we chuck the fish in the bosh, wash them all off, put them in the fridge, put ice over them and then wait until we've got enough to take to market.
So market would be?
Well, in the early days it used to go to Billingsgate.
Yeah.
But that was very early days because the amount of fish that we used to catch grew less and less and less.
So in the early days it used to go up to, I used to deal with a company called Bennets in Billingsgate.
But when my father took it over he used to deal with a different company.
Well I guess it probably became Bennets.
And that was established in 1840 apparently and this was H. Barber and Sons.
So you would take them to Newport Station?
Yes.
And then would there be a special train?
Yeah, it was the post train would take it in the mornings. So it would take it, you'd go up, take it, leave it at the station and then they'd stick it on the post train.
And then the Billingsgate would send a lorry and they would collect salmon from all over the country, not just from us.
It would be coming in from Scotland and North Wales and the East Coast of England, anywhere where they'd been catching salmon.
Could see the other ranks along here as well?
Well possibly. Yeah I suppose if they had enough fish, yes.
And so then that would go up to Billingsgate Market.
So that is?
Well that one's in 1971.
And this is a receipt to you for how many fish you had?
Yes. So there was one box of five fish.
67 pounds. Wow. I mean, carriage delivery in toll.
Yeah, that's...
48 pounds. Wow. Gosh. What a lovely document.
Yeah, well there's a better day there. There's some...
Got so much rubbish here.
It's not rubbish though, is it?
I don't know why it keeps it all...
It's nice stuff, isn't it?
Oh, it's just lovely.
So there's two boxes of fish there.
22 fish. So this would be the 28th of the 5th, 71.
So that was a good season. They had 154 pounds for those in 1971.
I wonder how many days' work that represented?
That was probably a couple of tides, two or three tides I guess, at least.
So two tides a day, so you're doing that twice a day?
Yes. Yeah.
So it's quite hard work.
Well, it wasn't hard work as such because it was only for an hour or so.
Because once the tide... you'd have to wait for the tide to go out.
So as the tide went out, you could follow the water down and see if you got any fish.
Or you could just wait for the tide to go out and then just go down and do it in one quick...
which is what we would do in sort of the night time. We'd just go down when the tide was out.
Did you have lights?
Yeah, we used to have big halogen lamps.
Do you ever get caught out by the tide?
Well, I lost a few cars.
Have you? Why?
Well, it was more looking for baskets. When the baskets used to get washed out,
you'd get a bit of wind and tide.
And it would knock the baskets out at the top of the fishing.
And I know where they were. They'd go up into the sand. You could see the sand.
I know where they were. So being lazy, I wouldn't walk to go and get them.
I'd take a shovel and... because you'd have to dig it out, basically.
I took the car up there to get so far and then I'd walk for the rest of it.
Not the Renault?
Yes. Lost the Renault 4 once, yes.
What happened?
Well, the wheels got stuck in the mud and I couldn't get it out.
Did you get the basket out?
Probably, yes.
And then you had to walk back with it?
Yeah, well, it's not heavy. It's very light.
But there might have been half a dozen, you see. So I would have needed the car then to get them.
So the fish house, it looks really tall in the photograph. Why was it so tall?
Did you have rooms upstairs?
No, there was no rooms upstairs, but it used to have a system in it where you had...
you can't see it on this very well, but there's a grill. Can you see the grill?
Yeah.
You'd have a grill both ends. So it was designed to allow the wind to blow through so you could open the grills so it would keep it cool in there.
Okay, okay. Yeah.
But prior to this, there was a house attached to this as well.
Yeah.
Before this part of it here was older than this part here.
Yeah. And what was that part then?
Well, this was a part of the original house because there wasn't an original house here which was pulled down in the 40s.
Oh, yeah. Do you know much about that?
No, not really. It was just where the people used to stay, I suppose, when it was summertime. I don't know much about it at all, to be honest.
So would Wyndham stay in the fish house during the season?
He wouldn't live there. No, he lived down South Marsh Lane. He would come... well, he used to cycle on his bike to get to the fishing.
And then in latter years, he had a little moped.
Oh, really? Yeah.
Yeah, the show used to provide him. So he could come and do his bits and pieces, repair the baskets.
So would you have a fire somewhere to boil a cup of tea?
Well, there's probably a photograph of that somewhere. I don't know. I've gotten loads of photographs.
But he would have his sort of living area in the daytime. He had like a day bed where he could have a snooze.
And then he'd have a coke fire, which all the schools had them at the turn of the century, these pot stoves.
And he had one of those, which used to keep himself warm. He had asbestos fingers.
He used to be able to lift the top of the coke fire off with his fingers. I don't know how.
And then he'd be able to fill it up with coke, not cold coke, which is what they used at the steelworks.
Oh, really?
He used to get out very hot, red hot sometimes. But somewhere I've got more photographs.
And there is one of him in the other, this building here is the buildings over there.
And what was that building for?
That was for repairing the baskets. That's where they used to do the basket making and repairing.
Is that where they were also stored in the winter?
The baskets, no, they were stored outside. They were just left outside in racks.
So this model here, that's in Newport Museum, isn't it?
It could be. My brother's got that particular one, in fact.
Oh, really?
But I believe he did present one to the museum.
Yeah, I've seen it. It's in the stalls.
Oh, is it? Okay.
Yeah, it's in the stalls.
Yes.
So I imagine, or maybe not, that when your father and grandfather arrived,
that they looked to Wyndham's for his knowledge of operating a rack?
Oh, yeah, I would think so, yes.
Yeah.
But it wasn't rocket science, but we tried different things.
I tried putting baskets in the wrong way round and doing all different things like that, experimenting.
But none of it worked. It was always the way that it always had been.
And so that was the way we always went back to.
Did you ever sell to local people?
Yeah, anybody in a farm that used to turn up or anybody who wanted it, restaurants, et cetera.
Oh, yeah.
People in Chepstow, because I lived in Chepstow, used to take it to people in there.
And so, yeah, as the price plummeted because of the farm salmon,
we had to find other better ways of selling it.
So rather than sending it to London, we sold it to the local hostels, hotels, restaurants.
So we used to sell it to us and Chepstow.
Did you ever weigh each individual salmon?
I always weighed it, yeah.
Do you know what your heaviest one was?
33 and a half.
Wow.
I have a picture of it somewhere, but wow, I've got no idea.
Really? That's a big one.
Yeah, that was the biggest one I ever had.
There was talk of bigger ones before I took over here.
Was there a fishing record here?
We had to keep records by law.
We had to keep a record of every fish caught.
So I haven't got any again that I've got somewhere.
This is all I could find.
I've got all the records of all the years.
And it tells you how many fish were caught on every day.
My God.
But it wasn't very good reading, I'm afraid.
Was it handwritten in the early days?
I don't know.
We used to do it on like a photocopied form.
But then towards the end we used to do it on a specially carbonated paper
that the environment agency used to provide.
So they would give me a book each season.
And then I would fill out every day.
But as the years went by, as we didn't fish as much, etc., it was pretty dismal.
And this was very reliant on the weather here.
This particular fishery was very reliant because of where we are.
Because it's so far from one side to the other, seven miles.
If the wind was in the wrong direction, it would blow the freshwater stream,
which is what the fish would be looking for.
It would blow it out to sea and we wouldn't catch anything.
So we were always looking for a nice southwest wind or a southerly wind.
Always waiting to see what happens.
Is it a bit like the lambing season?
Pretty exhausting, you have to be up all hours.
Oh yeah, it was miserable times.
Because it wasn't like every day was the same day.
Every day was an hour's difference or more.
So if it was midnight one night, then it would be one o'clock the next night.
And then the next night it might be quarter past two.
Because the difference in the tides, they don't actually follow that it's an hour.
Because it's a neap tide, a neap tide goes out slower.
So it's more like an hour and a half.
And then if it's a spring tide, it's less.
So it's less than an hour.
So it's a little bit complicated, but it's never the same time.
Did you ever feel, or your father and grandmother,
feel that we're part of this dying tradition?
Oh definitely, yeah, towards the end.
Because I fought it very hard when they tried to extinguish the fishery.
Because I wanted to keep it as a heritage thing.
So I got a, well this is part of the package I put together.
To try and maintain the heritage of it all.
And that's one of the reasons why I carried on doing it.
Because I thought it was something unique to the Wales coastline.
Yeah, so did you get nowhere with that?
Well in the end I was compensated, not an awful lot of money,
but they compensated me, I don't know, I can't really remember.
What, the environment agency?
The environment agency, yeah.
Yeah, well I was paid by the, by the Wye and...
Pusk.
Wye Foundation, the Nask Foundation, the Wye and Nask Foundation.
Yeah.
Not to fish, they paid me to stop fishing for a few years.
And then when it came to it, after that period stopped,
the environment agency said, right, we want you to stop altogether.
We'll either pay for you not to fish permanently,
or we'll pass an act of parliament and we'll get you out that way.
And they were trying to reduce the amount of time,
from three months to two months,
and so basically I knew I was on a hide and do nothing,
you can't compete against the environment agency,
unlike Nigel Maud, who's still competing with them.
Yeah, I know, he's got some energy there, hasn't he?
He has, in fact that's probably about him, that article there.
When did it stop then Adrian?
Here, the last time I was fishing was 1999.
That's quite a long time though.
Twenty years.
Yeah.
Was your father still alive then when you stopped?
No, no.
No, no, that one's about, well that is probably to do with Nigel Maud,
somewhere along the way.
Did you enjoy it though?
Oh it was great, yeah, it was a real talking point.
It was unusual, you know, it was unique.
I had other jobs, not proper jobs,
because I could never have a proper job.
I always had salesman jobs, I worked for Rank Xerox for a bit,
trying to sell their photocopies, that was a disaster.
God, everyone's worked for Rank Xerox.
Yeah, lots of people work for them.
And then I worked for a company called Welsh Glass,
and I sold replacement windows, which I was quite successful at.
I worked for them for fifteen years.
Oh really?
But when this finished, were you sad, or just accepted it?
Well, yeah, I was sad, but I suppose I had to accept the fact that I wasn't catching the fish.
I wasn't getting any proper money out of it, I wasn't earning anything from it.
I didn't tell the advice, I'd better keep quiet really.
You can scrub that all out, nobody need know that.
No, but I was doing it because I enjoyed doing it.
I wasn't doing it to make money, really, because I wasn't making any real money.
So, yeah, it was different. Very unusual.
Did you ever see Wyndham repairing the baskets and stuff like that?
Only the aluminium ones, yeah, not the wooden ones,
because that was before my time.
Wyndham used to help him at one point, and then his son John used to do them after Wyndham died.
So was there a skill to it?
I wouldn't say it was a great skill, but you had to know how the basket worked,
you needed to know how to make the bends in the pieces of aluminium wire,
but it wasn't a very skillful job, but to have made one out of withy, that was a skill.
The Morgan boys, as you probably know, they make them still. That is a skill.
Yeah, and they look lovely too, don't they?
Yes.
Did you ever find anything in your baskets that wasn't a salmon, or wasn't a fish for something unusual?
I always dreaded a body, but I never got one.
Never got one, luckily. Because that was something my father used to do.
Because we always had boats on the river, he would be the one that they turned to go and find a body
if somebody jumped off one of the bridges.
Oh God, really?
So he would be the person that would have to go and recover the body.
Oh gosh.
Yeah, before the days of the lifeboats and the sarah and whatever.
Were they always boatmen then, your family?
Well, my grandfather, as I say, was an architect. He had nothing to do with it. I don't even think he could swim, to be honest.
Wow.
But my father was about boats all his life, yes, because he had the ferry in his blood.
Did you have a boat down here?
He didn't, I did. I used to have boats here.
He used to keep his boats in Chepstow, either in the Wye or in Chepstow Pill.
And then we had boats in Cornwall and places, West Wales.
Did you ever go out to Denny Island?
I went there once.
How did you get there?
I got there in a boat, a Dory, many years ago.
I met somebody recently who walked there with cattle.
Well, I don't know if they can do that. I think that might be a bit of a...
He is certain they spent several hours there between tides.
Oh, yeah, OK.
Do you think it's impossible?
I don't know whether it's impossible, but I would say it's very, very, very tricky.
It's not a lot of grass on it either. There's not much there.
What is there? I mean, why do you...
Why did you go there?
We went to have a look at it. Just went out to somewhere to go,
because there's very few places to go in a boat from here.
So we went out to the Denny. It's about, oh, it's probably six miles from here.
Yeah, it's an all-way out, isn't it?
And there wasn't much there. It was mostly bird nests.
But we would have gone there probably July, August,
so the birds would have probably finished nesting by that time.
But I can't remember. It was a long time ago.
But it wasn't a lot of grass on it.
He swears that they took the cows out there to graze.
You were telling me about the farm next door that used to...
Was it a hospital or something?
Well, no, it was... I know of people in the area whose parents were born there.
The green algaes, the witherses, the waterses, hazels.
Hazels took it over. I'm not sure when.
But they mentioned to me that if you were going to have a baby,
it must have been somebody who knew what they were doing.
Like a midwife, maybe?
Before midwives, this is 100 years ago, 90-odd years ago.
Before the NHS, you'd have somebody who knew what they were doing,
not a doctor or whatever.
And the old farmhouse used to be a place where they would come to have their children.
That's so interesting.
Well, the only thing I can suggest is that you talk to Sue Waters,
because she would probably know better than me about it.
But I know there's a lady called Bunty Withers who lives in Lydney,
who she always talks about the farm and about how she was born there, etc.
Really? Bunty Withers? What a fantastic name.
Yeah, well, she's now Bunty Stickler.
Yeah? And she was born out here?
She was born, she says, in the farm.
Really?
But it was a bit different to what it is now, you see.
It's a much smaller building, and it was part of the Priory.
Yes, of course, yeah.
But who else? Again, you need to talk to the Waterses.
Oh, yes.
They would know much more about it than me.
Martin would know more about it than me, but he probably wouldn't know that much about it.
Martin Hayeswell is the guy that owns it now.
Well, yeah, somebody should actually go and speak to him.
Yeah, well, if you can get him. He's not there very often.
Isn't he? No.
Do you ever have people passing by and saying, oh, I used to fish there?
All the time.
Really? Yeah?
I get people come over, you used to come down, you were the boy, blah, blah, blah.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
But do you ever think, when you're here in the winter and you have a high tide, does it ever intimidate you?
Because it must be quite something to see.
Well, the house has been here for 27 years, and it's pretty well built.
When I built it, I built it not with my own hands, but I'd specified it all, designed it all, and said I want this, that and the other.
And so we haven't done too badly. It hasn't flooded or anything like that because it's higher.
But we do get a lot of breaking spray coming over the top of the wall when it's windy, when it's very windy.
That must be daunting.
It is if you stood in the window upstairs.
I can show you some video footage of it if you like.
Well, I actually came across some on YouTube.
Yes, probably stuff I took then.
Oh, maybe. And it was coming through the gates there?
Yeah, that's stuff I've posted on YouTube.
Oh, right. Oh, crap.
So the fact that at high tide, down there, it's below sea level, that doesn't intimidate you?
No, no, not at all. No, we're way above the high tide line here, so we've got no problem.
The other building down there, that floods occasionally.
The cafe?
No, the other house where they used to repair the baskets. That used to flood.
But we've had a new ramp put in so it doesn't flood as often as it used to.
Is there anything else you'd like to ask, Adrian, that I haven't asked you about?
Not really. I can't think, really.
Could I take some copies of these photographs?
Of course you can.
Is that okay? You'll be credited with everything, of course.
Well, I keep meaning to, too lazy to do it, to scan it all and then post it on, because my website, I've got goldcliff.net.
Have you?
Yes, www.goldcliff.net, which I never ever get around to doing. I've had it for 20 years and I kept meaning to do it and I never do it.
That's great. It takes a long time to scan loads of stuff like this.
Yeah.
Doesn't it?
Yes. I've lost all kinds of pictures, but as you say, things like that one there, that's a great picture.
And you reckon that's the 1920s?
It says 1929, whoever wrote it on there.
And it's here?
This is the flood, yes.
And all the others, do you reckon, are from here?
Well, not all of them. Some of them are, some of them aren't. Most of these are.
I mean, this is fantastic, isn't it, this?
Yeah.
Wow.
That's probably quite big. I might have to get my big scanner out. Is that okay?
If you want to, yeah.
Is that okay?
If you want.
I just don't want to take too much of your time.
No, it's all right.
That means I have to get the whole caboodle out.
I mean, this is a great little thing for little photos.
Yeah.
And I've seen this one, I've seen this. That's a good new thing to see in that one.
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Because somebody came along and interviewed Wyndham, didn't they?
Yeah, it was John Williams Davis. I remember his name after I spoke to you last.
And who's he?
He worked for the museum in Cardiff, the...
St. Faggots?
St. Faggots, I said.
Oh, right.
That'd be before your time, no agent?
No, no, I knew John Williams Davis. I don't know if he's still alive or not, but he must be in his early...
be in his late 70s, I would guess.
Yeah. Did he interview your father?
No, he interviewed Wyndham. He used to sit there and talk to Wyndham for hours on end.
Wyndham's sister's still alive, isn't she?
Er...
Or his daughter?
His daughter is Monica. She still lives in the family home down in Porton.
Sorry, not Porton, Saltmarsh, Saltmarsh Lane.
She's still down in Saltmarsh Lane, yeah.
Are you sure this is OK, Adrian?
Yeah, yeah.
I'm not going to take up too much of your time.
Er, it's all OK.
Well, it's nice that somebody's doing something with it, but er...
as I say, I keep meaning to have a go at myself, but...
all these things, you know, there's so much of my family I should be doing,
and it doesn't happen, you know.
Yeah.
And then I realised I'd spent my life interviewing people.
I hadn't interviewed my mum. My mum and my parents came over from Ireland in their 50s...
Oh, yeah.
...for work and er...
Why do you think you're crying so much?
LAUGHTER
Somewhere I've got some other ones that I can't find.
I'm just glad to see you haven't chucked any of it out.
I probably have somewhere.
LAUGHTER
I don't know, I got a lot of it.
I kept a lot of it because it is, as you say, it's heritage, isn't it?
It really is heritage.
Yeah.
It's a shame to lose it.
Oh, there we are.
I've got the names of the people.
Oh, my goodness!
Erm, so that's Dave Gale.
That's Lou Whitaker, George Whitaker, Unknown Unknown and Edmund Jones.
Now, this chap here, he appears in one of the Newport photographs.
Well, he looks like Jerry Waters, but erm...
LAUGHTER
I don't know, he's meant to be George...
Oh, it's George Whitaker then, that is. Yeah, yeah, if it's George Whitaker.
Yeah, he's the man that...
Er, a Windham Howells was an apprentice to...
Oh, really?
He would have taught Windham how to make the baskets.
Oh!
What do you know about him?
George Whitaker? Not much.
He worked here again for most of his adult life, making the baskets and doing the fishing.
I wonder if he was from Goldcliff.
Yeah, yeah, he was a Goldcliff man.
His son, Stan Whitaker, lived here till about 20-odd years ago.
Yeah.
I would guess Stan's dead now as well.
Gosh, I haven't come across the name Whitaker here.
Yes, yeah.